 Strawberry shortcake cheesecake
www.recipeoftoday.com
Prep: Cook: Total:
Ingredients Instructions
• Bottom crust 1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees.
• 22 Golden Oreos Crushed 2. Line the outer perimeter of your pan with
aluminum foil and generously apply butter to the
• 5 Tbsp Melted butter
inside to prevent sticking.
• Filling
3. Crust - crush the Oreo's & incorporate the butter,
press into the bottom of your springform pan.
• 4 8oz packages cream cheese
4. Filling - Place one 8-ounce package of the cream
• 1 2/3 cups sugar
cheese, 1/3 cup of the sugar, and the cornstarch
• 1/4 cup corn starch in a large bowl.
• 1 Tbsp Pure Vanilla Extract 5. Beat with an electric mixer on low until creamy,
about 3 minutes, then beat in the remaining 3
• 2 Large Eggs
packages of the cream cheese. Increase the
mixer speed to high and beat in the remaining 1
• 3/4 Cup Heavy Whipping Cream
1/3 cups of the sugar, then beat in the vanilla.
• Jar of smuckers strawberry ice cream topping
6. Blend in the eggs, one at a time, beating the
• Topping batter well after each one.
• 12 Golden Oreos Crushed & divided into 2 bowls 7. Blend in heavy cream.
(one for plain Oreo topping, one for your
8. At this point mix the filling only until completely
strawberry ones)
blended. Be careful not to overmix the batter.
• 1 1/2 Tsp Softened Butter
9. Gently spoon 1/2 of the cheese filling on top of
• 3 Tbsp from a small package of strawberry the prepared crust. spoon plops 1/2 the jar of
gelatin strawberry topping here and there. Drag a
butterknife through the strawberries to marblize
the cheese/straberries. Spoon in the other half of
the batter and the repeat the strawberry process
on top. Bake for 1 hour or until there is only a
slight jiggle when shook gently.
10. crumb topping - In a small bowl or the food
processor, add the Oreo cookies and pulse into
large crumbs. Add the softened butter and mix
gently with a fork or your hands to make pea-
sized pieces stick together. Scoop out 2
tablespoons of the mixture into a small bowl and
set aside. Pour strawberry jello powder over the
remaining crumbs and continue pinching the
pieces together. Add more softened butter if
needed for mixture to stick to the cake.