BEST Deviled Eggs Recipe
Deviled eggs are hard boiled eggs where the yolk is mixed with mayonnaise,
mustard, vinegar, salt and pepper. The little sprinkle of paprika on top is the perfect
finishing touch. Watch the video belowto see how easy it is to make this recipe!
20mins 15mins 35mins
Appetizer, Snack American 4.87 from 576 votes
best deviled eggs, deviled eggs, deviled eggs recipe, how to make deviled eggs
6servings (2 deviled eggs) Lisa Bryan
Equipment
• skimmerI love this skimmer for getting eggs in and out of boiling water.
Ingredients
• 6large eggs
• 3tablespoonsmayonnaise
• 1teaspoonDijon mustard
• 1teaspoonapple cider vinegar
• kosher salt and ground black pepper
• paprika
Instructions
1. Boil the eggs. Bring a pot of water to a boil. Reduce the heat to low (or off) to ensure the water is no
longer boiling or has any bubbles. Use a skimmer to place the eggs in the water. Then, increase the
heat back to high and set a timer for 14 minutes.
2. Make an ice water bath. While the eggs are boiling prepare an ice water bath and set aside. After 14
minutes, remove the eggs from the water and place them in the ice water bath.
3. Peel and slice the eggs. Once the eggs have cooled completely, peel them and slice in half
lengthwise. With a small spoon, remove the yolks to a mixing bowl and place the egg whites on a plate.
4. Make the filling. Mash the yolks with a fork and add the mayonnaise, mustard, vinegar, salt and
pepper. Stir everything together until it's smooth. Pro tip: If you'd like it extra smooth and fluffy, you
can also use a hand mixer.
5. Fill and serve. Use a spoon to add a portion of the deviled egg mixture back into the hole of each egg
white. Add a little sprinkle of paprika for garnish.
Notes
• Make sure to watch my video above for a tip on easily removing the egg yolk from the white. You can
also use a piping bag to make the yolk mixture prettier if you'd like.
• I do recommend Dijon mustard rather than yellow mustard for more flavor. This Dijon mustard is also
Whole30 compliant, if you're doing a Whole30.
• Please watch the measurements on the vinegar as well, some people have accidentally added 1
tablespoon of vinegar, but it's 1 teaspoon of vinegar. If you're not a fan of vinegar, you can use pickle
juice as well.
• If you're in need of a platter to display your deviled eggs, this ceramic one is my favorite. And if you're
transporting them, this travel carrier is great.
• Storage tip: Store deviled eggs in an airtight container in the fridge for 2 to 3 days.
• Make-ahead tip: Boil and peel the eggs up to 3 days in advance, and make the filling up to 2 days in
advance. Keep the two separate until serving, then pipe or spoon the filling into the egg whites when
ready to serve.
• If you have leftover hard-boiled eggs, you can make egg salad the next day!
Nutrition
Calories: 125.3kcal | Carbohydrates: 0.7g | Protein: 6.4g | Fat: 10.5g | Saturated Fat: 2.4g | Cholesterol:
189.4mg | Sodium: 125.7mg | Sugar: 0.6g