 Briam: Greek Roasted Vegetables
www.themediterraneandish.com
Prep: 20m Cook: 1h15m Total: 1h35m
Yield: Serves 6 or more
Dinner
Ingredients Instructions
• 1 1/4 lb/ 570 g gold potatoes (about 3 medium- 1. Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Place a rack in
size potatoes), peeled and thinly sliced into the middle.
rounds (about 1/8-inch thick)
2. Place sliced potatoes and zucchini in a large
• 1 1/4 lb/ 570 g zucchini squash (2 to 3 zucchini), mixing bowl. Season with kosher salt, pepper,
thinly sliced into rounds (about 1/4-inch thick) oregano, and rosemary. Add fresh parsley, garlic,
and a generous drizzle extra virgin olive oil. Toss
• Salt and pepper
to make sure the vegetables are well coated with
the EVOO and spices.
• 2 tsp/ 3.6 g dried oregano
3. Grab a large round pan on skillet (I used an 11-
• scant 1 tsp/1.2 g dried rosemary
inch oven safe pan. See notes for more options.)
• 1/2 cup/ 35 g chopped fresh parsley Pour 1/2 of the canned diced tomatoes in and
spread to cover the bottom of the pan.
• 4 garlic cloves, minced
4. Arrange the seasoned potatoes, zucchini, and
• Early Harvest Greek extra virgin olive oil
sliced onions in the pan in rows (simply going
• 1 28-oz/ 794 g canned diced tomatoes with juice around the shape of the pan and alternating.)
(no-salt added organic tomatoes are
5. If you have any of the extra virgin olive oil and
recommended)
garlic mixture left in the mixing bowl, pour that
all over the veggies, then top with the remaining
• 1 large red onion or 2 smaller red onions, thinly
diced tomatoes from your can.
sliced into rounds (if large, you'll want to cut the
onion in half first, and then slice)
6. Cover the pan with foil (tent foil a bit so it is not
touching the veggies). Bake in 400 degrees F
heated-oven for 45 minutes. Take pan out briefly
to carefully remove foil, then place back in oven,
uncovered, and roast for another 30-40 minutes
or until the veggies are soft and charred and
most of the liquid has evaporated. (ovens do vary,
so pay attention and check as needed.)
7. Remove from oven. Serve warm or at room
temperature with an added generous drizzle of
extra virgin olive oil. (see suggestions for to serve
along.)