5 from 54 votes
Crack Slaw
COURSE MAIN COURSE
CUISINE AMERICAN, ASIAN
PREP TIME 10MINUTES
COOK TIME 15MINUTES
TOTAL TIME 25MINUTES
This easy keto crack slaw recipe is basically a low carb egg roll without the outer shell, while still keeping all
4
of the amazing flavors.
4
INGREDIENTS
1-2teaspoonscooking oilvegetable oil, avocado oil, olive oil, etc.
1medium white oniondiced (about 1 cup)
1poundground beef
3-4clovesof garlicminced (or 1 tablespoon garlic paste)
1-2tablespoonsginger pasteor finely minced ginger, divided
½teaspoonsea salt
½teaspoonpepper
14oz.bag of tri-color coleslaw
4tablespoonslight soy sauce
1tablespoonrice vinegaror mirin
1teaspoonchili sesame oiloptional
1teaspoonsesame oil
1teaspoonSrirachaoptional
2-3green onionssliced for garnish
INSTRUCTIONS
1 In a large skillet, saute the onion in cooking oil over medium heat until soft and translucent.
2 Add the ground beef, garlic, ginger, salt and pepper and continue cooking, stirring regularly, until the
meat is cooked through and no pink remains.
3 Add the coleslaw and stir into the beef mixture, cooking several more minutes until the cabbage has
wilted.
4 In a small bowl, combine soy sauce, rice vinegar, chili sesame oil, sesame oil, and Sriracha. Add a
additional tablespoon of ginger paste, if desired.
5 Pour soy sauce mixture over the cooked crack slaw and toss to combine.
6 Garnish with chopped green onions and serve hot.
NOTES
Storage:
Keep refrigerated in an airtight container for 3-4 days.
Notes:
Minced garlic or fresh minced ginger can be used. However, the pastes infuse flavor through the
entire dish and they are convenient.
Crack slaw has a medium spice level. If desired, omit or reduce the chili sesame oil and sriracha.
You can also reduce the ginger if needed.
Do not cook the onions in sesame oil due to the strong unique flavor. It can be over powering.
Drain the excess grease off the beef if you are using one with higher fat content.
The soy sauce adds a lot of saltiness. Salt at the end if desired.
Consider using a slaw blend that has carrots and purple cabbage for color and nutrition. You can
also shred these and add them yourself if you are using regular cabbage.
Mirin is similar to rice vinegar but sweeter. You can find it on the Asian aisle at most stores.
For a sweeter slaw, add 1 tablespoon of brown sugar to the soy mixture. This will increase the
total carbs.
Any ground meat can be used in this dish.
NUTRITION
Calories: 371kcal | Carbohydrates: 11g | Protein: 23g | Fat: 26g | Saturated Fat: 9g |
Polyunsaturated Fat: 2g | Monounsaturated Fat: 11g | Trans Fat: 1g | Cholesterol: 81mg |
Sodium: 1421mg | Potassium: 584mg | Fiber: 3g | Sugar: 5g | Vitamin A: 161IU | Vitamin C: 41mg
| Calcium: 80mg | Iron: 3mg
Crack Slaw https://thegirlinspired.com/crack-slaw/ August 23, 2023