 Double Crust Cheesecake
www.recipeoftoday.com
Prep: Cook: Total:
Ingredients Instructions
• Crusts: 1. Start by making a crust mixture. Combine the
ingredients together until all the crumbs are
• Box 1 of Graham crackers (about 27 graham
evenly saturated in the butter. Pour half into the
crackers), smashed into soft crumbs
bottom of the springform pan 9 ′ ′ and pack. Use
the bottom of a dry measuring cup to make sure
• 1/2 Light Brown Sugar
it's really tight - if it's too lost it will only collapse
• 1 c salted butter dissolved when you're trying to cut it. Put the spring frying
pan in the freezer to adjust, and the other half of
• Cake:
the crust aside on the counter.
• 2C heavy whisk cream
2. Using a hand mixer or stand mixer, whisk the
• 3 (8 ounces) cream cheese packaging, room heavy cream for 2 minutes at medium height,
then add 2 tablespoons of powdered sugar or
temperature
cornstarch for installation. Continue to skin until
• 1/2 Sugar the cream consists of harsh peaks, about 4-5
minutes more.
• 1/4 Sour cream
3. Also, use a hand mixer or stand mixer, cream
• 2 tbsp sugar powder
cheese, and sugar together. Scrape the sides of
• 2 tbsp cornstarch (or more powdered sugar) the bowl as you go, and mix until completely
mixed.
• 2 teaspoons lemon juice
4. Add sour cream, vanilla, lemon, and still-powered
• 1/2 tbsp vanilla extract sugar. Whisk it high until smooth and thin.
5. Fold half the whipped cream, gently, then fold in
the other half. Remove the bottom crust from the
fridge.
6. Pour the filling into the pan and smooth. You will
need to press it down while smoothing it to
prevent air pockets and make it suitable.
Remember that there should be a place for the
upper cortex.
7. Once the filling is smooth, use a spoon to sprinkle
over half the remaining crumbs. Use the back of
the spoon to smooth it over the top of the
cheesecake while pressing it gently. Add the
remaining crumbs and continue to soften and
press. You might have a lot of crumbs, but that's
fine. Try to press it as tightly as possible.