Fudge Crostata with Raspberry
Sauce

Prep Total Ingredients Servings
50 3 10 13 12
HR
MIN MIN
Ingredients Steps
Crust 1 Make pie crusts as directed on box for Two-Crust Pie using 10-inch
tart pan with removable bottom or 9-inch glass pie pan. Place 1 crust
1 box (14.1 oz) refrigerated in pan; press in bottom and up side of pan. Trim edge if necessary.
Pillsbury™ Pie Crusts (2 Count),
2 Place cookie sheet on middle oven rack in oven to preheat; heat oven
softened as directed on box
to 375°F. In 1-quart saucepan, melt chocolate chips and 2
Filling tablespoons of the butter over low heat, stirring constantly, until
smooth. In medium bowl, mix remaining 6 tablespoons butter and 2/3
1 cup semisweet chocolate chips cup sugar with wire whisk until light and fluffy. Stir in almonds, 1 egg,
the egg yolk and melted chocolate until well blended. Spread mixture
1/2 cup butter
evenly over bottom of crust-lined pan.
2/3 cup sugar
3 Cut second crust into 1/2-inch-wide strips. Arrange strips in lattice
1 cup ground almonds design over chocolate mixture. Trim and seal edge.
1 egg 4 Place tart on preheated cookie sheet in oven; bake 45 to 50 minutes
or until crust is golden brown. During last 10 to 15 minutes of baking,
1 egg yolk
cover crust edge with strips of foil to prevent excessive browning.
Sauce Cool completely, about 1 1/2 hours.
5 Meanwhile, in blender or food processor, blend raspberries on high
1 package (12 oz) frozen speed until smooth. Place strainer over 1-quart saucepan; pour
raspberries without syrup, berries into strainer. Press berries with back of spoon through
thawed strainer to remove seeds; discard seeds. Stir in 3/4 cup sugar and the
lemon juice. Heat mixture to boiling, stirring constantly. Reduce heat
3/4 cup sugar
to medium-low; boil 3 minutes, stirring constantly. Cool; refrigerate
1 teaspoon lemon juice until serving time.
Sweetened whipped cream, if 6 Before serving, garnish crostata with whipped cream, chocolate curls
desired and whole raspberries. Serve with raspberry sauce. Store in
refrigerator.
Chocolate curls, if desired
Whole raspberries, if desired