 Garlic Butter Naan
www.chefdehome.com
Prep: 10m Cook: 15m Total: 25m
Yield: 6 Naans,2
Side Bread
Ingredients Instructions
• 3 tbsp Yogurt, yogurt should be sour, or add 1 1. In a wide bowl add all ingredients for Garlic Naan
tbsp more Dough with only egg white and 1/4 cup of milk.
Discard egg yolk or use it for breakfast omelette.
• 1 Egg(s), only egg white of a large egg, or use 1.5
2. Mix all ingredients. Add 1-2 tbsp more milk at a
• 2 Cup All-Purpose Flour
time until dough comes together. (I end up
adding up-to 2-4 tbsp more milk.) Knead the
• 1 tbsp Canola Oil, 1 tsp extra for coating the bowl
dough very briefly, just for 30 sec in the bowl until
• 6 tbsp Milk, sometimes I need, 2 tbsp more. Add a bowl forms and flour is not dry. (please note this
1/4 cup first, then add little until dough is formed dough gets tough when knead too much, just
mix until it comes together.)
• 1 tsp Sugar
3. Coat the bowl with 1 tsp oil, add dough and coat
• 1/2 tsp Salt
in oil. Cover with clean kitchen towel. Leave on
• 1/2 tsp Garlic, paste, 1-2 small garlic cloves grated side for at least 30 minutes.
• 1/2 tsp Baking Powder 4. Heat an iron skillet or heavy-bottom pan. Or
preheat oven at 500 degrees Fahrenheit.
• 1/4 tsp Baking Soda Microwave and melt the butter in a microwave
safe bowl for 15 secs, add chopped garlic and set
• 2-3 Garlic, cloves, fine minced, optional
aside. Transfer dough to a flour dusted board.
• Butter - Salted, melted, for brushing naan Divide dough into 6 equal parts.
• 2-3 tbsp Cilantro, chopped, for garnish 5. Roll each dough to a (about 3" wide - 6" long) oval
shape (or round if you prefer). You can also
stretch the dough with hands. While you roll next
naan, keep the rolled naans covered with kitchen
towel.
6. Tawa Naan (Stove Top) - Place one rolled naan on
heated skillet and let it cook for 1-2 minutes or
until soda and egg action shows tiny puffed
nooks, all over the naan.
7. Flip the naan, and cook other side on tawa
(skillet) for other 1-2 minutes until brown spots
appear all over. Or place it on direct gas flame
until slight charred and cooked on other side
(just 10-15 secs max). Always keep a tongs/spatula
handy to lift or flip the naan.
8. Oven: Place rolled naan on hot sheet tray, two or
three, depending on size of sheet tray. Bake for 4
minutes, remove, bush butter, put back in oven
with broiler on for 1-2 minute, or until tops are
nice and charred.
9. Remove cooked naan with tongs and place next
naan on skillet/oven, repeat until all naans are
cooked. Immediately brush butter-garlic or just
butter on cooked naans and spread some
chopped cilantro. Butter will keep them moist
while you finish cooking the rest.