How to make Perfect Chocolate Chip Cookies
Author:Erin Clarkson Prep Time:15 minutes Cook Time:30 minutes
Total Time:2 hours Yield:28 cookies 1x Category:Cookies
Method:Baking Cuisine:American
Description
This post will teach you how to make perfect chocolate chip cookies from scratch. It is a detailed guide, full of tips and tricks to help you make amazing
homemade chocolate chip cookies. This easy chocolate chip cookie recipe makes a great base, so you can customise your chocolate chip cookies as
you like!
Ingredients
225g Unsalted butter, at room temperature
170g Dark Brown or Muscovado Sugar
100g Granulated / White Sugar
50g Raw / Turbinado Sugar
1 large egg (about 50g not including shell)
1 tsp vanilla bean paste or vanilla extract
300g All-purpose flour
1/2 tsp baking soda
1/2 tsp baking powder
3g salt (1 tsp kosher or 1/2 tsp table salt)
350 g good quality dark chocolate, roughly chopped, plus a little extra for chocolate puddles (see body of post)
Flaky Sea Salt such as Maldon for finishing
Instructions
1 In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, or with an electric mixer, cream together the butter and sugars on high speed for 5
minutes, until pale, and light and fluffy. Add the egg and vanilla, and mix to combine, scraping down the bowl when necessary.
2 Sift together the flour, baking soda, baking powder, and salt. Add to the mixing bowl, and mix on low to just combine (you still want a few streaks of
flour remaining that will get mixed in when you add the chocolate).
3 Add the chopped chocolate and mix until just incorporated. Remove the bowl from the mixer and give a few mixes by hand using a flexible spatula, to
ensure even incorporation of the chocolate.
4 Using a 2 Tbsp Cookie scoop, scoop out balls of dough onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper (you can place them close together). If you
want big puddles on the top of your cookies, you flatten a ball of dough, press the chocolate onto the top side, then continue as usual and roll it into a
ball, which then gives you even chocolate distribution as the cookie bakes.
5 If you are not adding additional chocolate, there is no need to re-shape into a ball - you can bake right from the scooped shape. Cover the sheet pan
with plastic wrap and chill the dough balls for an hour in the fridge, or up to overnight.
6 Toward the end of the chilling process, preheat the oven to 350°f / 180°c. Line 2-3 baking sheets with parchment paper (you can bake these in
batches)
7 Arrange 6 cookie dough balls on a baking sheet, leaving room for spreading. Leave the remainder of the dough balls in the fridge.
8 Bake for 13-14 minutes, or until lightly golden and beginning to set. Baking time depends on personal preference - if you like them quite soft, bake for
13 mins, if you like them a tiny bit crispy then bake for 14. Remove from the oven, and if desired, use a round cookie cutter slightly larger than the
cookie to scoot them into a perfectly round shape.
9 Sprinkle liberally with flaky sea salt. Allow to cool on the pan - the cookies will deflate slightly as they cool. Repeat the baking process with the
remaining cookies.
10Store leftovers in an airtight container at room temperature.
Notes
i If you cannot find raw / turbinado sugar, it can be substituted with 25g white and 25g brown sugar.
Find it online: https://cloudykitchen.com/blog/perfect-chocolate-chip-cookies/