 Pan Roasted Kielbasa & Cabbage Dinner
www.budgetbytes.com
Prep: 20m Cook: 40m Total: 1hr
Dinner
Ingredients Instructions
• 1/4 cup olive oil 1. Preheat the oven to 400ºF. In a small bowl whisk
together the olive oil, red wine vinegar, mustard,
• 2 Tbsp red wine vinegar
crushed garlic, salt, and freshly cracked pepper
for the vinaigrette. Set the vinaigrette aside.
• 1 Tbsp stone ground or whole grain mustard*
2. Slice the kielbasa into 1/4-inch thick rounds. Wash
• 1 small clove garlic, crushed or minced
the potatoes well and slice them into 1/4-inch
• 1/4 tsp salt rounds as well. Place the kielbasa and potatoes
on a large baking sheet and drizzle with 1 Tbsp
• Freshly cracked pepper
olive oil. Toss the kielbasa and potatoes in the oil
• 1/2 lb kielbasa until they are well coated and the surface of the
baking sheet is also covered in oil. Sprinkle a
• 1 lb baby red potatoes pinch of salt and pepper over top.
• 1/2 head cabbage** 3. Remove any dirty or damaged leaves from the
cabbage. Cut the stem off the cabbage, then cut
• 2 Tbsp olive oil, divided
it in half. Reserve one half for a different recipe.
• Pinch of salt and pepper Slice the remaining half into 1-inch wide slices.
Cut each slice into two pieces. Place the cabbage
• Handful chopped fresh parsley pieces on the baking sheet with the kielbasa and
potatoes, nestling them down so that they are
laying flat on the baking sheet.
4. Brush the remaining 1 Tbsp olive oil over the
surface of the cabbage pieces and add a final
pinch of salt and pepper to each.
5. Roast the kielbasa, potatoes, and cabbage in the
preheated oven for 20 minutes. Remove the
baking sheet from the oven and carefully flip the
kielbasa, potatoes, and cabbage pieces. The
cabbage may fall apart a bit as it's flipped, which
is okay. Return the baking sheet to the oven and
roast for an additional 10-15 minutes, or until the
cabbage is tender and the edges are slightly
brown and crispy. The kielbasa and potato slices
should be well browned.
6. Remove the baking sheet from the oven and top
with fresh chopped parsley and a drizzle of the
mustard vinaigrette. Serve warm.