 Eliza's Dinner Rolls
sallysbakingaddiction.com
Prep: 3h25m Cook: 22m Total: 3h45m
Yield: 14-16 rolls
Holiday Bread
You only need 7 ingredients to make these dinner rolls. Flaky, soft, and buttery,
these fresh dinner rolls outshine any main dish. See recipe notes for freezing
and overnight instructions. You can also reference my Baking with Yeast Guide
for answers to common yeast FAQs.
Ingredients Instructions
• 1 cup (240ml) whole milk, warmed to about 110°F 1. Prepare the dough: Whisk the warm milk, yeast,
and 1 Tablespoon of sugar together in the bowl of
• 2 and 1/4 teaspoons Red Star Platinum yeast (1
your stand mixer fitted with a dough hook or
standard packet)
paddle attachment. Cover and allow to sit for 5
minutes.
• 2 Tablespoons granulated sugar, divided
2. Add the remaining sugar, egg, butter, salt, and 1
• 1 large egg
cup flour. Beat on low speed for 30 seconds,
• 1/4 cup (60g) unsalted butter, softened to room scrape down the sides of the bowl with a rubber
temperature and cut into 4 pieces spatula, then add the remaining flour. Beat on
medium speed until the dough comes together
• 1 teaspoon salt
and pulls away from the sides of the bowl, about
• 3 cups (375g) all-purpose flour or bread flour 2 minutes. *If you do not own a mixer, you can
mix this dough with a large wooden spoon or
(spoon & leveled)*
rubber spatula. It will take a bit of arm muscle!*
• optional topping: 2 Tablespoons melted unsalted
3. Knead the dough: Keep the dough in the mixer
butter mixed with 1 Tablespoon honey
and beat for an additional 2 minutes or knead by
hand on a lightly floured surface for 2 minutes.
(See video tutorial above if you need a visual of
kneading dough by hand.)
4. 1st Rise: Lightly grease a large bowl with oil or
nonstick spray. Place the dough in the bowl,
turning it to coat all sides in the oil. Cover the
bowl with aluminum foil, plastic wrap, or a clean
kitchen towel. Allow the dough to rise in a
relatively warm environment for 1-2 hours or until
double in size. (I always let it rise on the counter.
Takes about 2 hours. For a tiny reduction in rise
time, see my answer to Where Should Dough
Rise? in my Baking with Yeast Guide.)
5. Grease a 9x13 inch baking pan or two 9-inch
square or round baking pans. You can also bake
the rolls in a cast iron skillet or on a lined baking
sheet.*
6. Shape the rolls: When the dough is ready, punch
it down to release the air. Divide the dough into
14-16 equal pieces. (Just eyeball it– doesn’t need
to be perfect!) Shape each piece into a smooth
ball. I do this entirely in my hands and you can
watch in the video tutorial above. Arrange in
prepared baking pan.
7. 2nd Rise: Cover shaped rolls with aluminum foil,
plastic wrap, or a clean kitchen towel. Allow to
rise until puffy, about 1 hour.
8. Adjust oven rack to a lower position and preheat
oven to 350°F (177°C). (It's best to bake the rolls
towards the bottom of the oven so the tops don't
burn.)
9. Bake the rolls: Bake for 20-25 minutes or until
golden brown on top, rotating the pan halfway
through. If you notice the tops browning too
quickly, loosely tent the pan with aluminum foil.
Remove from the oven, brush with optional
honey butter topping, and allow rolls to cool for a
few minutes before serving.
10. Cover leftover rolls tightly and store at room
temperature for 2-3 days or in the refrigerator for
up to 1 week.