Strawberry Crunch Poke Cake
This Strawberry Crunch Poke Cake is seriously AMAZING and
reminiscent of those nostalgic childhood ice cream bars! A moist and
soft strawberry poke cake with a strawberry shortcake crunch
topping!
4hrs40mins 25mins 5hrs5mins
4.97 from 32 votes
Cake, Cakes/Cupcakes American, Dessert
Ingredients
For the Cake:
• One(15.25) box white cake mix, plus ingredients on back of box to prepare white cake
• 3ozbox strawberry gelatin
• 1cupboiling water
• 1cupcold water
For the Frosting:
• 8oz(One package) cream cheese, softened
• 1½cupsheavy whipping cream
• 1cupconfectioners' sugar
• 1tspvanilla extract
For the Strawberry Crunch Topping:
• 18-20Golden Oreos, coarsely crushed
• 1/4cupunsalted butter, melted
• 3ozbox strawberry gelatin powder
• Fresh strawberries for garnish, optional but recommended
Instructions
1. Preheat oven to 350° degrees F. Liberally grease a 9x13 light metal rectangular baking
pan with cooking spray; set aside. Prepare your cake mix according to package directions
for a white cake. Add the cake batter to the prepared pan and bake according to package
instructions (around 22-25 minutes or a toothpick inserted near the center comes out
clean). Cool completely, then poke holes all over the cake using the tines of a fork.
2. In a small pitcher, combine the first box of a strawberry gelatin and the boiling water and
whisk until powder is dissolved. Add in the cold water and whisk in until incorporated.
Pour the liquid gelatin mixture evenly over the holes on the cake. Cover and refrigerate for
at least 4 hours, up to overnight, to set.
3. For the frosting: In the bowl of a stand mixer, beat the cream cheese with the paddle
attachment until smooth and fluffy, about 30 seconds - 1 minute. Scrape out and set
aside in a medium bowl. Add the heavy cream, confectioners' sugar and vanilla to the
original stand mixer bowl and switch to using the whisk attachment. Whisk on high speed
for approximately 5-7 minutes or until stiff peaks form.
4. Fold the cream cheese mixture into the whipped cream mixture until no streaks of cream
cheese remain and everything is evenly incorporated. Spread the frosting over the chilled
cake in an even layer. Set aside.
5. For the topping: Combine the coarsely crushed Golden Oreos, melted butter, and second
box of strawberry gelatin powder (just the dry powder) in a medium bowl until combined
and thoroughly coated. Drop handfuls of the mixture evenly over the frosted cake and
press to adhere to the frosting. Top with fresh strawberries, if desired. Store any leftover
cake covered in the fridge. The longer the cake sets in the fridge, the topping will soften
some.