 Eliza's Buttery Herb Stuffing
www.howsweeteats.com
Prep: 45m Cook: 50m Total: 1h35m
Yield: 8,8 people
Side Holiday
Ingredients Instructions
• 24 ounces bread cubes, (preferably toasted or 1. Note about the bread cubes! You have options
stale) here. Stale or toasty bread works best. The first
option is that you can cut 1 ½ pounds of bread
• 1 cup unsalted butter
into cubes, place it in a large baking dish, loosely
tent with foil and let it sit overnight. You can also
• 3 cups diced sweet onion, (roughly 2 large
cut the cubes and put them in oven, toasting
onions)
them at 350 degrees F until they are like
• 2 cups diced celery croutons, about 15 minutes or so. Finally, you can
buy the toasted bread cubes in bags from the
• 6 garlic cloves, (minced)
store. It’s your choice! You can also choose the
• kosher salt and pepper size of your cubes. They can be small or larger for
a more rustic stuffing.
• 3 tablespoons chopped fresh sage
2. My mom has always used a mixture of stale and
• 3 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley fresh bread. Also, I like to use different kinds of
bread (usually two), like a sourdough and italian,
• 3 tablespoons chopped fresh rosemary
and mix the cubes. It provides great texture.
• 2 1/2 cups chicken or vegetable stock
3. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Brush a 9x13
• 2 large eggs baking dish with melted butter, olive oil or spray
with nonstick spray. Place the bread in a large
• a mixture of fresh herbs for sprinkling mixing bowl (this may be easier for you to stir!) or
the 9x13 inch baking dish that you will bake it in.
4. Heat the butter in a large skillet or dutch oven
over medium heat. Once melted, stir in the
onion, celery and garlic with a big pinch of salt
and pepper - at least ½ to 1 teaspoon each. Cook
until the onions and celery soften, about 8 to 10
minutes. Stir in the sage, parsley and rosemary.
Cook for another minute. Stir in 1 cup of stock.
5. Pour the onion celery mixture over the bread
crumbs and toss well to coat.
6. In a small bowl or measuring cup, whisk together
the remaining 1 ½ cups stock and 2 eggs.
7. Pour that mixture into the bread cubes and stir
and fold the bread cubes until thoroughly
combined. Bake the stuffing for 45 to 50 minutes,
until the internal temperature registers 160
degrees F. If the stuffing is getting too browned,
you can tent it with foil.
8. I have successfully made this a day ahead of time
and reheated it - it’s just as good! You can also
use this mixture to stuff the bird if you wish!
9. To serve 4: Cut this recipe in half exactly and bake
it in an 8x8 or 9x9 inch dish. I bake for the same
amount of time.
10. To serve 12 to 16: Double this recipe exactly. Bake
in a large baking dish, like a 10x15 roasting pan, or
baking in two 9x13 baking dishes. I bake for
roughly the same amount of time, or about 15
minutes longer.