 Eliza's Pumpkin Pie Recipe
sallysbakingaddiction.com
Prep: 45m Cook: 55m Total:
Dessert Family Holiday
Ingredients Instructions
• Sugared Cranberries 1. For the cranberries: Place cranberries in a large
bowl; set aside. In a medium saucepan, bring 1
• 1 cup (120g) fresh cranberries*
cup of sugar and the water to a boil and whisk
until the sugar is dissolved. Remove pan from the
• 2 cups (400g) granulated sugar, divided
heat and allow to cool for 5 minutes. Pour sugar
• 1 cup (240ml) water syrup over the cranberries and stir. Let the
cranberries sit at room temperature or in the
• Pumpkin Pie
refrigerator for 6 hours or overnight (ideal). You'll
• Homemade pie crust (full recipe makes 2 crusts: 1 notice the sugar syrup is quite thick after this
amount of time. Drain the cranberries from the
for bottom, 1 for leaf decor)
syrup and pour 1 cup of sugar on top. Toss the
• one 15oz can (about 2 cups; 450g) pumpkin cranberries, coating them all the way around.
puree* Pour the sugared cranberries on a
parchment paper or silicone baking mat-lined
• 3 large eggs
baking sheet and let them dry for at least 2 hours
• 1 and 1/4 cups (250g) packed light or dark brown at room temperature or in the refrigerator.
sugar
2. Make the pie crust through step 5 according
• 1 Tablespoon (8g) cornstarch to my directions, tips, and pictures. Or use store-
bought.
• 1/2 teaspoon salt
3. For the pumpkin pie filling: Whisk the pumpkin,
• 1 and 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon 3 eggs, and brown sugar together until
combined. Add the cornstarch, salt, cinnamon,
• 1/2 teaspoon ground ginger*
ginger, nutmeg, cloves, pepper, cream, and milk.
• 1/4 teaspoon ground or freshly grated nutmeg* Vigorously whisk until everything is combined.
Filling will be a little thick.
• 1/8 teaspoon ground cloves*
4. Preheat oven to 375°F (190°C).
• 1/8 teaspoon fresh ground black pepper
5. Roll out the chilled pie crust: Remove 1 disc of pie
• 1 cup (240ml) heavy cream dough from the refrigerator. On a lightly
floured work surface, roll the dough out into a 12-
• 1/4 cup (60ml) milk (I use 1% – any is fine)
inch circle. Make sure to turn the dough about a
• egg wash: 1 large egg beaten with 1 Tablespoon quarter turn after every few rolls. Carefully place
milk the dough into a 9-inch pie dish. Tuck it in with
your fingers, making sure it is smooth. With a
small and sharp knife, trim the extra overhang of
crust and discard. Crimp the edges with your
fingers, if desired. Brush edges lightly with egg
wash mixture. Using pie weights, pre-bake the
crust for 10 minutes.
6. Pour pumpkin pie filling into the warm pre-
baked crust. Only fill the crust about 3/4 of the
way up. (Use extra to make mini pies with leftover
pie dough scraps if you'd like.) Bake the pie until
the center is almost set, about 55-60 minutes
give or take. A small part of the center will be
wobbly - that's ok. After 25 minutes of baking, be
sure to cover the edges of the crust with
aluminum foil or use a pie crust shield to prevent
the edges from getting too brown. Check for
doneness at minute 50, and then 55, and then 60,
etc.
7. Once done, transfer the pie to a wire rack and
allow to cool completely for at least 3 hours.
Decorate with sugared cranberries and pie crust
leaves (see note). You'll definitely have leftover
cranberries - they're tasty for snacking. Serve pie
with whipped cream if desired. Cover leftovers
tightly and store in the refrigerator for up to 3
days.
8. Make ahead tip: Pumpkin pie freezes well, up to 3
months. Thaw overnight in the refrigerator before
serving. Pie crust dough freezes well for up to 3
months. Thaw overnight in the refrigerator before
using. If decorating your pie with sugared
cranberries, start them the night before. You'll
also begin the pie crust the night before as well
(the dough needs at least 2 hours to chill;
overnight is best). The filling can be made the
night before as well. In fact, I prefer it that way. It
gives the spices, pumpkin, and brown sugar
flavors a chance to infuse and blend. It's
awesome. Cover and refrigerate overnight.
9. Make ahead tip: Pumpkin pie freezes well, up to 3
months. Thaw overnight in the refrigerator before
serving. Pie crust dough freezes well for up to 3
months. Thaw overnight in the refrigerator before
using. If decorating your pie with sugared
cranberries, start them the night before. You'll
also begin the pie crust the night before as well
(the dough needs at least 2 hours to chill;
overnight is best). The filling can be made the
night before as well. In fact, I prefer it that way. It
gives the spices, pumpkin, and brown sugar
flavors a chance to infuse and blend. It's
awesome. Cover and refrigerate overnight.