 Cinnamon Swirled Banana Bread
thebakermama.com
Prep: 20m Cook: 70m Total: 1h30m
Yield: 8
Dessert Holiday
Swirls of buttery cinnamon sugar swim throughout the moistest banana bread
that's out of this world delicious!
Ingredients Instructions
• 1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, melted 1. Preheat oven to 350°F. Lightly grease and flour a
9x5-inch loaf pan and set aside.
• 1 cup granulated sugar
2. In a large bowl, melt the butter and let cool
• 2 large eggs
slightly. Whisk in the sugar then the eggs and
vanilla. Stir in the flour and baking soda. Fold in
• 1 teaspoon vanilla
the mashed bananas until just combined.
• 2 cups all-purpose flour
3. In a small bowl, use a fork to stir together the
• 1 teaspoon baking soda cinnamon sugar swirl ingredients until thick and
well combined then add in the chocolate chips
• 4 ripe bananas, mashed (about 1-1/2 cups)
and hazelnuts.
• 2 tablespoons butter, melted
4. Spread ¼ of the batter evenly into the bottom of
• 3 tablespoons granulated sugar the prepared pan. Dollop ¼ of the cinnamon
sugar mixture over the batter in the pan and
• 3 tablespoons dark brown sugar then make a nice thick swirl through the batter
with a table knife or bottom of a wooden spoon.
• 2 tablespoons ground cinnamon
Place ⅓ of the remaining batter evenly over the
• 6 thin slices of banana, for garnishing first layer and swirl with ⅓ of the remaining
cinnamon sugar mixture. Place ½ of the
• Chopped hazelnuts & chocolate chips remaining batter evenly over the second layer
and swirl with ½ of the remaining cinnamon
sugar mixture. Spread the remaining batter
evenly over the top and dollop with the
remaining cinnamon sugar mixture. Make large
swirls throughout the entire loaf. Place six thin
banana slices down the middle of the batter.
5. Place loaf pan on a baking sheet and bake for
60-70 minutes or until golden brown and a
toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean.
Let the bread cool in the pan for at least 30
minutes before removing to a wire rack to cool
completely.