 Eliza's Thanksgiving Turkey
altonbrown.com
Prep: 15m Cook: Total: 9h45m
Yield: 10 to 12 servings
Holiday Dinner
Ingredients Instructions
• 1 (14- to 16-pound) frozen natural, young turkey 1. Two to three days before roasting, begin thawing
the turkey if frozen. To thaw safely, do so in the
• 1 gallon vegetable broth, packaged, not low-
refrigerator or in a cooler kept at 38ºF.
sodium or sodium-free
2. You can also make the brine at this time:
• 1 cup kosher salt
Combine the vegetable broth, salt, brown sugar,
peppercorns, allspice, and candied ginger in a
• 1/2 cup light brown sugar
large stockpot. Bring to a boil over medium-high
• 1 tablespoon black peppercorns heat, stirring occasionally to dissolve the sugar
and salt. Once the mixture comes to a boil,
• 1 1/2 teaspoons allspice berries
remove from the heat, cover, and let cool to room
• 1 1/2 teaspoons chopped candied ginger temperature. Refrigerate at least until completely
chilled, or until the turkey is completely thawed.
• 1 gallon heavily iced water
3. Early on the day of or late the night before you’d
• 1 red apple, quartered like to eat, brine the turkey. Combine the chilled
brine and the ice water in a 5-gallon coolerA
• 1/2 yellow onion, quartered
drink cooler works especially well here.. Place the
• 1 cup water turkey (giblets and other innards removed) in the
brine, breast side-down. If necessary, weigh down
• 4 sprigs fresh rosemary the bird to ensure it is fully immersed, then set in
a cool area for 8 to 16 hours12 hours is the sweet
• 6 leaves fresh sage
spot., turning the bird halfway through brining.
• Canola oil
4. When you’re ready to roast, heat the oven to
500ºF. Adjust the oven racks so that the turkey
will fit on the lowest rack in the oven.
5. Remove the turkey from the brine, and rinse the
inside and out with cold water. Discard the brine.
6. Place the bird on a flat roasting rack on a half-
sheet pan or roasting pan and pat very dry with
paper towels.
7. Pre-form an aluminum shield (aka turkey
triangle) by folding a sheet of heavy duty
aluminum foil to form a triangle. Grease lightly
with canola oil, then place over the turkey breast
so that the point is towards the legs. Press on the
sides of the foil to form it to the breast and hold
its shape. Remove and set aside for now.
8. Combine the apple, onion, water, and cinnamon
stick in a microwave-safe dish and microwave on
high for 5 minutes. Add the steeped aromatics
(not the water) to the turkey’s cavity, along with
the rosemary and sage. Tuck the wings
underneath the bird and coat the skin lightly
with canola oil.
9. Roast on the lowest level of the oven for 30
minutes. After 30 minutes, open the oven and
slide the rack out to access the turkey. Working
quickly, insert a probe thermometer into the
thickest part of the breast, avoiding any bones,
and top with the turkey triangle. Slide the turkey
back into the oven and reduce the oven
temperature to 350ºF. Set an alarm on the probe
to go off at 155ºF. A 14- to 16-pound turkey should
take an additional 90 minutes to 2 hours, but the
temperature of the meat is more important than
the time it takes to get there, so pay attention to
the probe.
10. Let the turkey rest, still on the roasting pan and
lightly coated with foil for at least 15 minutes
longer before transferring to a cutting board and
carving.